So today we read the final chapter of the book at first and second, Samuel.
And David, well, he's been king for 40 years, an entire generation.
And if anyone knows that he is not a self-made man, it's David.
David's constantly going back to, who am I God?
I was just a shepherd boy.
I was forgotten by my dad.
I was bullied by my brothers.
I was a nobody.
And you took me and you made me king over all Israel.
You helped me defeat giants.
And you've exalted me to this place of power and authority, and you've spoken to me by your spirit.
I've written all these songs, and David's legacy lasts for centuries beyond him.
And so you'd think on this final chapter of David's life, he's gonna go out like this.
But in the final chapter of the books of Samuel, David, stumbles.
We don't expect him to stumble, but he is going to stumble.
which makes me think of a song he wrote, Psalm 37.
If God delights in a man's way, if your heart is a heart after God that even though you stumble, you will not be utterly cast out, but God's gonna catch you and he's gonna pick you back up.
Aren't you grateful that God catches us when we fall and stumble?
And so we wanna watch how is David gonna stumble and how is he gonna respond to that stumble?
Well, let's read it together.
Second Samuel, chapter 24, verse one.
Again, the anger of the Lord burned against Israel, and he incited David against them, saying, go and take a census of Israel and Judah.
So the king said to Joab and the army commanders with him, go throughout the tribes of Israel from Dan to Bereshiba and enroll the fighting men so that I may know how many there are.
But Joab replied to the king, may the Lord your God multiply the troops a hundred times over?
And may the eyes of my Lord the king see it, but why?
Does My Lord the king want to do such a thing?
The king's word, however, overruled Joab and the commanders.
So they left the presence of the king to enroll the fighting men of Israel.
And verses five through seven talk about all the places they go within verse eight.
And after they'd gone through the entire land, they came back to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and 20 days.
And Job reported the number of fighting men to the king in Israel.
There were 800,000 able-bodied men who could handle a sword and in Judah, 500,000.
David orders a census.
How many soldiers do I have?
It took nine months all over.
They had to count all the men.
The army commanders in Job were like, hey, I don't think this is a good idea, but David overruled them.
David stumbles in this moment, but I don't know about you, but I'm stuck on the first verse.
You ever read something in the Bible, you're like, huh?
And sometimes we just want to keep on reading because we don't want to like deal with it.
But did you read what I read?
The anger of the Lord burned against Israel.
So he incited David against them.
How do we understand this passage?
Now, here's what you need to know.
If you're a brand new Christian, what's the best way to interpret the Bible when you don't understand?
The best way to interpret the Bible is to use the Bible itself.
And so we're going to use the Bible itself to help us understand what is
What is happening between God and Israel and David?
So here's the first thing.
If you read this exact same accounting chronicles, written centuries later, here's what you will read.
Satan rose up against Israel and incited David to take a census of Israel.
Okay, so what's happening?
Samus says that God incited David and Crockett says, Satan incited David.
So how do we understand this?
Well, in Hebrew thinking,
Whatever God allows, God is sovereign over.
And so Satan whispers in the ear of David, David falls to the temptation and God is over all of it because God can work in all those situations.
Here's what we know about God.
James chapter one, the brother of Jesus wrote this.
When tempted, no one should say God is tempting me.
For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he tempt anyone.
So this is not saying that God directly is inciting tempting David.
No, he's allowing Satan to do his work to do a couple of things.
One is to fulfill a judgment against Israel.
We don't know what that judgment is, but we see that judgment is there.
And God allows Satan to whisper to David's ear.
David's responsible for this and we're gonna see how he responds to the sin in his life.
But there might be another clue.
Why is his senses itself?
Why is it a sin?
Well, Exodus chapter 30 verse 12 gives us a clue.
And if you're a student of the Bible, write down Exodus chapter 30 verse 12.
Where God says, listen, a man only has a right to count what belongs to him.
And if the people of Israel are God's people, he's the only one that can command a census like that.
And so whatever's happening in David's life, well, this sin is gonna have a consequences, but God is sovereign over it.
And this is important for us to know that even when we stumble, God can use our stumble for a greater good.
I mean, there's a moment in Peter's life where Jesus looks at him and says, Peter, Satan has asked me to sift you like wheat.
And if I'm Peter, I'm like, and what did you say?
Because I hope you told him no.
Jesus said, and so I'm praying for you.
And after you stumble,
and you're gonna stumble, come back and strengthen your brothers.
And if I'm Peter, that's not what I wanna hear.
Satan is calling out, I want him.
And Jesus is like, go for it.
I'm gonna pray and you're gonna fall.
But when you get back from your stumble, go and strengthen your brothers.
Now this should be encouraging to us because how many of you stumble as you follow Jesus?
Yes.
All the honest people raise their hands.
Some of you guys raised two hands like, yes, yes.
I know what it's like to stumble on.
And what does God think of my stumble?
Well, he's going to catch you and he's going to bring you back up.
If your heart is ready and willing.
And there's so many examples of how God can use the stumble.
I mean, the Bible helps us to interpret our moments.
Why is this happening?
Why did they do that to me?
And one of those moments is Joseph.
Joseph thrown into pit by his brothers, sold into slavery.
And for 13 years, his life is devastated because of this cruel and insensitive and vengeful act of his own brother.
His own brothers sold him into slavery.
And he experiences injustice after injustice after injustice.
And you're thinking like, there's no recovering from that, but God takes that.
And he uses to save all of those brothers lives.
And it's not until decades later,
that Joseph can say to his brothers, what you intended for evil, God used for good.
He saved our whole family through that, right?
And so that should make us curious of the people of God.
How is God using the stumbles, my stumbles and other people stumbles to fulfill his divine purpose?
Because we know Romans 828.
God can work all of these things together for good to those who love Him and are called according to His purpose.
And that's not just something we know here, it's something we know here because God is sovereign over all.
Amen?
And this is that moment.
This is that moment in David's life.
Now, David hears, you have 1.3 million soldiers.
And I'm not sure for that moment, he's like,
I can defend against any other country.
Look at the strength of heaven.
Maybe it was that moment.
He felt this conviction.
Look at verse 10.
Now, Lord, I beg you, take away the guilt of your servant.
I have done a very foolish thing.
Notice, David does not say the devil made me do it.
Notice he doesn't minimize or hide.
Remember the last time he sinned against Bathsheba and he tried to cover it up and he killed a guy and lied and lived in this whole lie for like nine months?
He doesn't do that.
He tells on himself, and this is how you know when you're following Jesus that you're growing, that you don't have to get caught to repent, but you can go right to God.
God, my conscious is stricken.
God forgive me.
Have you ever been conscious stricken where you felt God speaking or pressing something on your heart?
I tell people like, when I first became a Christian, I was a brand of Christian, 18 years old.
I went from, I was a, I was multilingual as a non-Christian.
I spoke English in profanity.
Anybody know what I'm talking about?
And so it's just part of my language.
And then, and then I became a Christian.
I remember the first time I cursed after I became a Christian.
I felt something, I hadn't felt in a really long time, this, this warm, burning sensation in my heart.
What is that?
And it was like God's spirit was saying, Doug, that's not who you are anymore.
Now you speak and represent your father in heaven and you're his son.
And that feeling on the inside, wasn't someone tell me thou shalt not curse?
No, no, this is now who you are.
It's God's spirit working in you.
And if you've ever felt that moment when you're about to tell a lie or about to sign a paper, you know it's not true or about to click on something you shouldn't click on, about to take advantage of someone you feel that, pay attention to the way that God's spirit works through your conscience.
David responds in repentance without getting caught, and that is progress.
But just because you confess sin before you get caught doesn't mean you're not gonna suffer the consequences of sin, because sin always has consequences.
And so David confesses to God, I shouldn't have done it.
All the reasons why we don't know exactly, but now the next day, verse 11,
Before David got up the next morning, the word of the Lord had come to Gad the prophet, David Seer.
Go and tell David this is what the Lord says.
I'm giving you three options.
Choose one of them for me to carry out against you.
So Gad went to David and said to him, shall there come on you three years of famine in your land, or three months of fleeing from your enemies while they pursue you, or three days of plague in your land?
Now then think it over and decide how I should answer the one who sent me.
David said to Gad, I'm in deep distress.
Let us fall into the hands of the Lord for his mercy is great, but do not let me fall into human hands.
What's happening?
God sends his prophet, Gad, to say to David, you have sinned.
I've heard your confession, but there's going to be a consequence and you have three options, three years of famine, three months of your enemy pursuing you or three days of a plague where you fall into the hands of God.
Now, interestingly enough, if David picks option one or option two, he's going to be shielded from the punishment, from the consequence, because if there's a famine, is the king still going to eat?
Yes, he's going to get the food.
He's royalty.
Is his family still going to eat?
So they're not going to suffer from the famine.
Poor people are going to die.
If the enemy attacks, is David going to be safe?
Yes, he's the king.
He's got the royal bodyguard.
He's got the also.
He can just surround his city with all his people and everyone else can die.
But if it's a plague, if it's random, if it touches young people and old people and royal people and common people, then that means it could happen to David's own family.
And this is how, again, you know he's a man after God's own heart.
Even in his stumble, he doesn't go into the self-protective mode.
He's like, I'm gonna fall into the hands of God.
I'm gonna fall into the mercy of God.
And this is a spiritual instinct.
If you've ever gone through a difficult time, one of the most powerful things you say is God, God have mercy on me.
I'm a sinner.
I'm gonna accept whatever you have, but my instinct is even in judgment, it'll be wrapped in mercy.
James, the brother of Jesus.
Mercy triumphs over judgment.
Aren't you grateful for the heart of God?
This is the heart of God to us, his people.
Adjust and holy God, who's filled with great mercy.
And so what happens next verse 15?
So the Lord sent a plague on Israel from that morning until the end of the time designated and 70,000 of the people from Dantabeshiba died.
And when the angel stretched out his hand to destroy Jerusalem, the Lord relented concerning the disaster and said to the angel who was afflicting the people, enough withdraw your hand.
And the angel, the Lord, was then at the threshing floor of Arana, the Jebusite.
And when David saw the angel who was striking down the people, he said to the Lord, I have sinned,
I, the shepherd, have done wrong.
But these are but sheep.
What have they done?
Let your hand fall on me and my family."
You have this scene, this destroying angel who's bringing the judgment of God.
70,000 people die because of David's sin.
And now there's this moment where he sees this angel.
He's like, he's like, kill me.
Let the judgment fall on me.
I'm the shepherd.
These are just sheep.
It's not their fault.
And again, you can see in David the heart of God.
to sacrifice himself for the people to take the judgment of God onto himself.
And so does this angel strike David down?
Well, look at verse 18.
On that day, Gad went to David and said to him, go up and build an altar to the Lord on the threshing floor of Iran on the Jebusite.
So David went up as the Lord had commanded through Gad.
And when Iran looked and saw the king and his officials coming toward him, he went out and bowed down before the king with his face
to the ground, and Aarona said, why has my Lord the king come to his servant?
To buy your threshing floor, David answered, so I can build an altar to the Lord that the plague on the people may be stopped.
Aarona said to David, let my Lord the king take whatever he wishes and offer it up.
Here are the oxen for the burnt offering.
Here are the threshing sledges and the ox yokes for the wood.
Your majesty, Aarona, gives all this to the king.
Arana also said, and may the Lord your God accept you.
But the king replied to Arana, no, I insist on paying you for it.
I will not sacrifice to the Lord my God, burnt offerings that cost me nothing.
So David bought the threshing floor and the oxen and paid 50 shekels of silver for them.
And David built an altar to the Lord there and sacrificed burnt offerings and fellowship offerings.
Then the Lord answered his prayer in behalf of the land, and the plague on Israel was stopped.
This is a moment.
A moment is David sees this angel.
His angel is about to come into Jerusalem.
70,000 people already dead.
And he's like, kill me, kill me.
And then God says, hey, I want you to go, David.
And I want you to buy this thrushing floor.
And I want you to offer a sacrifice because this sacrifice is going to stand between you and this angel.
And he goes to Iran and Iran says, you think whatever you want, because I don't want to die.
I mean, there's like a great willingness for Iran to say, just take it all because you want God to accept this sacrifice on behalf of all the people.
And again, we see God respond to this sacrifice with great mercy.
You look at the last part of the chapter, the Lord answers.
This prayer and the plague is stopped.
This is the mercy of God.
And so if you've ever been in a jam, have you ever done something stupid to sin that affects you?
A sin that affects other people?
Listen, the gospel reminds us that God's mercy and his love and his faithfulness is new every morning.
That's why we sing this song, great is your faithfulness.
Oh God, the longer we live, the longer we see the faithfulness of God in our lives.
And if you're a brand new Christian, lamentation is chapped with three.
Verse 22 and 23, these are verses that you should commit to memory.
They can be part of your morning prayer.
Because of the Lord's great love, His great mercy, we are not consumed.
For His compassion has never failed.
They are new every morning.
Great is your faithfulness.
Has God been faithful in your life?
Yeah, you started to think about it.
He has been so faithful.
Now, a little bit about this,
Threshing floor of Arana.
In Second Chronicles chapter three, verse one, this threshing floor is described as located on the top of Mount Moriah.
Mount Moriah, Mount Moriah.
I know that name, Mount Moriah.
Oh, a thousand years before this moment on that same mountain, Abraham walked up
to sacrifice his son Isaac.
On Mount Moriah a thousand years before this moment, Abraham's hand is raised over a son with a knife and God says, stop, I'm gonna provide for you a lamb, a sacrifice.
A sacrifice that stands between certain death.
The same moment that happens here.
This is going to be the site where the temple of Solomon is going to be built.
Mount Moriah in this moment.
is telling a story of something that happened a thousand years earlier.
And it's something that was gonna happen a thousand years later.
You see, Jesus would say that all of these stories point to him and you'll see this story point to him in a very significant way because a thousand years after this moment on Mount Mariah, Jesus became a sacrifice.
He died on a cross on Mount Mariah a thousand years after this.
And I want you to, I want you to look at this image for a second.
He was the sacrifice that stood between you and the wrath of God in the exact same way.
What you deserve, he said, I will take on me, and he didn't just cover over your sin.
He satisfied the divine wrath of God, and when he was all done, he said, it is finished, your debt is paid in full.
I don't know about you, but every time I think about it,
Every time I think about it, it doesn't make sense to me.
The Bible says, this is the love that transcends understanding.
Why did Jesus die for me?
He died for me when I didn't care about him.
He died for me when I was blaspheming him.
He was dying for me when I was doing all the things.
And he dies for me even when I stumble today.
He does that for me.
And I don't really completely understand that kind of love, but it's changed my life.
And I think it's changed some of your lives.
And so what do we do?
How do we respond to this beautiful, generous legacy?
John, the disciple of Jesus would write this.
He himself, Jesus, is the sacrifice that atones for our sins, and not only for our sins, but for the sins of all the world.
The atonement.
Now here's a theological idea.
Atonement doesn't just mean
like an animal is sacrificed to cover the sin.
It means to fully satisfy or absorb the wrath of God.
You see, when Jesus died on the cross, He paid for all of your passions.
He paid for all of your presence sins.
And He paid for all of your future sins.
The Bible calls it a once and for all sacrifice to bring redemption to all who would come, all who would trust, all who would believe.
And we get to celebrate that today in communion.
Communion, we get to take
a piece of bread and a cup.
And remember that his body was broken for us, his blood was spilled for us.
He got what we deserve, our punishments so that we could go free.
And this is the generosity of our God.
And this story of David points to that moment in the future.
Now, what's the greatest expression of God's love?
Well, Jesus described it this way.
God so loved the world that He gave.
God is generous.
In the very heart of God, in the very nature of God, is a generosity.
And love is expressed through His generosity in all of these ways, in all of David's life, in my life, in our redemption, in our salvation.
And so I want us to think about David's response to the generosity of God.
In a simple statement, it is, I'm not gonna offer back to God something that costs me nothing.
For all that he's done for me, I want this response to go back to him.
I want him to know what's in my heart.
And so as we look at this closing chapter in the books of First and Second, I wanna talk about just two takeaways that we can apply to our lives now as New Testament Christians here in 2025.
Here's the first one.
We have received a generous legacy.
So let's just think for a moment.
How has God been generous to you?
Well, you were created in the very image of God before you were ever born.
He gave you gifts and abilities.
He gave you experiences.
You were born to the family.
You were born to you.
You got the education.
You had the break.
Someone opened that door for you.
Listen, you are not a self-made man.
You're not a self-made woman.
All that you have has been given to you by God, the brain that you have, the house that you have, the relationships that you have.
And the sooner you get ahold of that, you're like, even my calling and my purpose and the way that God's spirit works in me, he saved me, he forgave me, he gave me a calling, he gave me peace, he gives me joy, he heals my diseases.
I mean, you could go on and on and on and on and on and just think about how good and gracious and generous God has been to you.
Because if not, you just simply take for granted
God exists that He loves you.
And that when you say, no, He's got grace.
Forgive me and we move on.
And we don't think about what it costs God to lavish His generosity on us.
But the reality is the more we can think about it and meditate and the more it causes us to instinctively worship and to live in generosity.
And so we've received a generous legacy.
And number two, generosity is our response.
David's.
He says it.
I'm not going to sacrifice the Lord something that costs me nothing.
He's not going to say, well, what's the best price I can get, Arana?
I want to get a discount on this altar because I don't want to give a lot of my money away.
I want to keep as much as I can.
So what's the least amount I can pay you so I can honor God at this place?
Now, David's not thinking that at all.
He's saying, I did a stupid thing.
I deserve judgment.
God's about to show me mercy, whatever it takes, because you've been so generous to me.
This is his heart.
And this practice of learning how to be generous back when you really stop and think what Jesus did for you.
Well, this generosity is not necessarily a natural thing, but it's a supernatural work that God can do in your heart.
Because I remember as a brand new Christian, 18 years old, hearing about this idea that as Christians, we give back to God as he gives us things, resources, finances, we give back to him.
And I was like, I didn't really grow up in a church when they talked about that kind of stuff.
And so the first time I thought about it, I'm like,
That's a lot of money, and that's my money.
And I remember the first time I was challenged to give to a church or give to sponsor kids who were hungry in another country, and it was like the most painful experience, because I was saying goodbye to a little bit of my control.
You see, let's just think about this.
If I keep all my money to myself, then I have like an insulation between me and a crisis so that I don't really need God, I've got money in the bank.
Like for David, if he has a sense that he has 1.3 million people, he doesn't really need God, because his soldiers can defend him.
And then if that doesn't work out, he can pray, God help me.
But God doesn't want to be number two on your lists.
That's why Jesus said, you can't serve God and money.
Pick one.
And if you pick God, he will bless you abundantly, but as you give, he will fill your empty hand.
This is how a relationship goes, right?
He's not, he is not interested in a transaction.
He's not even interested in the amount.
He's interested in the heart and the way that it builds this relationship.
And so I remember it took me a minute before I could give and experience a smile.
You know, sometimes you do the right thing, even if you're not feeling it.
Nobody?
Okay.
Too honest, people just greet your teeth.
This is the right thing.
I'm going to obey.
I'm going to do it.
And I can say in the first year I gave, I was not experiencing joy.
but I met some people here at this church who helped form this joy in me and taught me.
As we raised our kids, we would teach our kids to get your allowance, it's a dollar, you had 10 dimes, give the first dime to God, to his people.
And then you'll always have more than enough, and so our kids grew up this way.
And sometimes you know how your kids can teach you about the joy of giving?
I mean, I remember my oldest son, Jackson, he loved balloons, and one day we bought him this red balloon.
He's like four or five years old, we walk outside,
He lets it go, and I'm like, well, I just paid for that balloon.
And he's like, this is for you, Jesus.
And that red balloon, I was like, it's $5.
What's he doing?
And I was like, my five-year-old son is teaching me about the heart of generosity.
I love this balloon, but Jesus, I want you to have it.
You can learn a lot from a five-year-old about generosity.
You see?
this idea of generosity being our response.
It's not natural, but it's supernatural.
Listen, we are made in the image of a God who is generous.
And so you're never gonna be more like God, more like his son Jesus, than when you're generous.
And so how does this shape us?
How does it shape our hearts as a people?
Because we want to be like Jesus.
And again, this goes against all of our instincts for self-sufficiency.
all of our instincts for will of people know how much money I have or what kind of car I drive or what kind of house I live in or where I vacation or if people know the latest device I have, I'll get respect or off security in case something really bad happens and Jesus offers us those costumes that the wisest way we can live is in generous response to the generous legacy we have received.
And so I want us to think for a moment about our present moment.
This weekend is gonna be a mark in our spiritual history.
I love that our young people, our high school and middle school students are in the room because you're gonna witness something that's gonna be a generational moment.
We've only done this once or twice in the first 40 years of Calvary.
We're gonna make an offering to the Lord.
And here's what I want you to think about.
All of this, the whole idea of Calvary, the whole idea of a church started here, started 40 years ago with a few people in a small church in Las Vegas
And we don't even know most of these people's names, but I'm gonna show you this picture.
This is our origin story of our church 40 years ago.
40 years ago in this small church in Las Vegas, there were four people who said, we believe we should go to Fort Lauderdale, Florida and plant a church.
And this small church prayed over them.
And if you notice in the bottom left-hand corner, there's a bucket.
It says gifts for Fort Lauderdale.
And so the people in that church, they took some money out of their pockets or wrote a check and put in that bucket.
And everything that you know that is Calvary Chapel,
Calvary Chapelwood, four kids, Calvary Christian Academy, Calvary House, and 58 church plants across the world, 60,000 people who have come to know Jesus, 30,000 in Baptist, all those things started in that bucket, right?
And so we've been telling that story for the last 40 days.
We've been talking to our leaders, like if all that happened from
the legacy of the first generation of Calvary, and now we're entering the next 40 years, then how can we be generous toward the next generation?
Because right now, we are literally enjoying the generosity, the prayers, and the sacrifice of that previous generation.
And so, I want us to talk about this moment, because this is not a moment that we do a lot at Calvary.
Frankly, at Calvary, here's what we do, or here's how we talk about giving.
We say, generosity is a response, it's an act of worship,
So there are boxes in the back and you can give your ties and offerings.
You can give them online.
There are different ways to give, but we don't make a big deal out of it.
Definitely not a public deal out of it because we want there to be an honor.
As you get to know Jesus more, he shapes your heart more and more toward generosity.
We don't talk about it as a law like the Old Testament type.
The Bible talks about the grace of giving.
That that giving the first and best 10% is just the beginning of how God shapes your heart toward generosity, toward his work and his people.
And so when we think about a public giving moment, well, certain verses come in my mind like, wait, didn't Jesus say, don't let your left hand know what your right hand gives?
Shouldn't this be anonymous?
And Jesus did say that in the Sermon on the Mount, but I'll give you some context for what he says and why he says it.
You see, in those three pastures, he says, when you fast and when you pray and when you give, don't do it to be seen by other people.
In other words, don't draw attention to yourself, don't make a show, don't be thinking, oh, someone's gonna see how holy I am by praying this prayer.
Someone's gonna see how generous I am by giving this money.
Someone's gonna see how spiritual I am because I haven't eaten enough.
I've been fasting and I'm telling everyone I'm fasting.
If you're gonna do those things,
Don't do it to draw attention to yourself.
But Jesus is not prohibiting public prayer.
We pray all the time publicly.
He's not prohibiting public fasting.
We call fasts and people have called fasts all through the Bible.
And he's not prohibiting public giving because public giving was part of both the Old Testament and the New Testament.
But Jesus is also saying this, it's not about the amount you give.
You see, the only time Jesus pointed someone out in a public giving moment
was a woman who gave just like two pennies.
It was a poor widow in the back of the church that no one else saw.
Giving is not about the amount.
Listen, whether you give $2 or $2 million, your name is not gonna end up on a plaque.
It's not gonna end up on this back wall because there's only one name here.
We're gonna honor his name as Jesus, right?
So it's not about you.
It's about a family, a group of people coming together and say,
He is worth it.
Here's what he's done for us, and here is our grateful response.
And so in a moment, we're gonna do that, but I wanna just share with you some principles from the three public offerings that we see in the Bible, two from the Old Testament and one from the new.
And we're gonna go back to our bookshelf because we've been talking about all the stories that God has written here at Calvary, but we're gonna go way back in time to the book of Exodus, written at the time of Moses,
And Moses calls for a public offering.
He says, we want to build God a tabernacle.
God has given me in my mind this space where we can meet with God, where the Ark of the Covenant will be, where there'll be these places where we can wash our hands and meet with God and eat the show bread.
And there's this beautiful invitation.
And so he invites people, bring your jewelry, bring your cloth, bring your precious stones, and bring it as an offering to God.
Now, the thing about a public offering is God
always calls for one after he's done something generous first.
So where did these people come from?
These people that are about to make this offering.
Well, they were in slavery for 400 years before this offering.
They cried out to God, God show us mercy, show up, deliver us.
And God brought Moses and brought the plagues and delivered them through the Red Sea and swallowed up their enemy on the way out.
And then he brought bread from heaven and water from Iraq.
And now he says, bring your offerings.
And here's the response.
And those who are willing and those who are willing, and they came and they brought joyfully.
And this is the only offering in the entire Bible and in the entire history of the world that I know of where the leaders had to say, stop bringing stuff.
We already have more than enough.
I've never ever heard of that ever again, but most of like guys, we have too much gold and too much jewelry and too much cloth.
We can't use anymore.
Now, I have a question.
Think with me.
Where did these Hebrew slaves get this jewelry from and this gold from and this precious stones and this cloth from?
They were slaves for 400 years.
Oh, on the way out of Egypt, the Egyptians gave them all the stuff that said, get out, go with your God and leave.
And the Israelites received all of this great wealth.
People who've been slaves for 400 years are now wealthy beyond their imagination.
And I'm just thinking of I'm like an Israelite and I got this massive gold ring and it looked good on me.
I was a slave for 400 years, or my family's wearing out, now I've got this beautiful gold ring.
And now I hear Moses say, if you want to bring in your gold and offer it to God of a choice, man, I love this ring.
And that's always the choice.
Would I willingly and joyfully give what I love as a sack price?
Because I don't want to offer it to God, something that costs me nothing.
I want to give this gold to them.
And if I'm one of those Israelite men or women, and I see the gold
that's arraying all this.
I was a part of that.
I can say, you know what?
I got to be a part of what God did.
I got to respond to what He did to me.
And I don't think any of us ever want to be the people that let everyone else enjoy the blessing of giving and building something and going, and this brings us to this next moment.
You see, after David built or David created or bought this
Threshing in Florida, then there's a chance now to build.
He's 70 years old, and he's gonna say, hey, on this threshing floor, we're gonna build the temple.
This thing I had a dream about, and he tells the people, as he gathers this great assembly, he says, God put this in my mind, but told me I couldn't build it.
So I've gathered all the workers, I've gathered all the gold jewels we have now, the location where the temple's gonna be built, and I'm gonna give out of my own personal treasure.
Not just out of the national treasure, but out of my own personal treasure.
And then he asked this question.
He says to all the leaders and whoever else is willing, you can consecrate yourself, you can give with us.
And then the people watched as David gave, as the leaders gave, and they gave willingly and joyfully.
And there's this incredible celebration as the temple plans are about to be put into place and the temple's about to be built.
And then David breaks out in a song because that's what he always does.
And here's his song, First Chronicles.
Chapter 29.
Yours Lord is the greatness and the power and the glory and the majesty and the splendor for everything in heaven and earth is yours.
Yours Lord is the kingdom.
You're exalted as head over all.
Wealth and honor come from you.
You are the ruler of all things.
In your hands are strength and power to exalt and give strength to all.
And here it comes.
But who am I?
And who are my people that we should be able to give as generously as this?
Everything comes from you, and we have given you only what comes from your hand.
So Lord our God, all this abundance that we have provided for building you a temple for your holy name comes from your hand, and all of it belongs to you.
And I know, my God, that you test the heart and are pleased with integrity.
All these things I have given willingly and with honest intent.
And now I've seen with joy how willingly your people who are here have given to you.
Notice the same language for the Exodus gathering for the temple.
It's people who are willing.
It's people who are joyful.
It's people who realize none of this ever belongs to us and we give it back to you.
And then God says, and I test your heart in the gift.
You're not giving to get.
You're not giving to show off.
You're not giving so people think something about you're giving out of the purest response that I have received the generosity of God and now this is my willing response.
Now you might say, well, those are Old Testament stories.
I'm glad you're thinking because what does the New Testament have to say?
Well, there was an offering in the New Testament for another church.
The church of Jerusalem was going through a famine and Paul is talking to the Corinthians and he says to the Corinthians, I know you don't have a lot of money.
But there are people right now that have it worse off than you.
There's a famine in Jerusalem.
And so I'm going to come by and I'm going to have a collection.
And the money that we take, we're going to bless people that you're never going to meet because they're your brothers and sisters in Christ.
And so he tells them, I want you to prepare.
I don't want to catch you in the moment where you feel stuck or coerced or trapped or manipulated.
He says, I'm going to give you time to think and pray about how you might help some other people.
And here's what he says in 2 Corinthians 9.
Each of you should give what you've decided in your heart to give, not reluctantly or under compulsion for God loves a cheerful giver.
So notice in all three of these public giving calls, the call is to give willingly, not under pressure, not to show off, not to make it about you, but to give willingly and joyfully and celebrate with God's people as they do this together.
Now, if you're a Corinthian,
And you're like, honestly, I can't afford to give to those people there, because I can hardly pay my bills.
Paul invites them to think even deeper about the act of giving, which is an act of faith.
He says, God is able to bless you abundantly.
So that in all things, at all times, having all that you need, you will abound in every good work.
What does that mean?
Paul's like, well,
When you look at your resources, your money, your finances, it's like seeds in your hand, and the more you give, the more you feel like you don't have anything, but God's able to fill your hand as you give.
This is how he works, and so these calls in the Bible test me.
God doesn't need your money, he wants your heart.
He wants to take that grip of greed and self-sufficiency, those things that make life all about you and start to separate them so your heart can be generous like his heart.
And this is what God is after.
And then he gives the Corinthians,
the why.
He says, for you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, yet for your sake, He became poor so that you through His poverty might become rich.
We have received a generous legacy.
And generosity is our response, so we're gonna stand and we're gonna have a few moments.
This first moment is we're gonna sing together a 300-year-old song that Christians have been singing as a way to express their gratitude and devotion.
It's called doxology, a praise to the Father and to the Son and to the Holy Spirit.
Let generosity and praise be our response.
Sing together.
Praise God from whom?
Let's eat full, praise Him all creatures here below.
Praise Him above ye, heavenly host.
Praise Father, Son,
got from.
Church, can we thank the generosity of our God?
Can we just give him applause and praise in this house?
And so this is this next moment we've been preparing praying for for the last 40 days.
You were given a card as you walked in and so many of our leaders have been praying.
God, how do I respond over the next two years?
As we build more churches, create more youth spaces, help with orphanages, do more outreach, love people in Jesus' name.
And so we're gonna come together and we're gonna fill these buckets.
Now, some of you are already ready.
Some of you are already ready to place your gifts in this bucket.
Now, if you aren't, here's what I want to tell you.
If you're new here, you've been gone last couple of weeks.
We don't want this to be a moment of pressure.
You can pray and go home
Come back joyfully, next week can be a part, because this is a two-year journey, but I know so many people here are ready.
If you scan that code on the screen or fill this out, you can make this decision, because for the next few moments, we're gonna be singing the songs of worship, and like my wife and I, six months ago, we began to pray, three months ago, we made our pledge, and we're gonna put it in this bucket, and I just wanna tell you one story before we do this, because this is gonna be a moment of song, and a moment of offering, and the generous response of God's people.
Once or twice in a generation moment.
This last week, a young woman named Sydney came up and she said, you know, I can't wait for convince Sunday because I came here and I was addicted to drugs and my family relationships were broken and this place
Calvary, it gave me a place to stay, brought counseling into my life, brought disciples to my life.
And now I'm drug and alcohol-free, and now God's restored, they're relationships with my family.
And now I have a job, and I now have the chance for the first time, not just to receive from the church, but I get to give back to the church that God used to save my life.
I want to be the first one to the bucket.
And when I heard that, I was like that.
is the heart of a grateful person who's received the generosity of God.
So this is a moment of joyful and willing whole-heartedness.
So let's worship and let's bring our offerings and make this a moment that marks our spiritual family as we give praise to Jesus our King.
Let's worship church.
And so we want to close with a song that's been written for this moment, a prayer, the Habakkuk prayer.
God, we have heard of your fame.
We stand in all of your deeds.
Now renew them in our day, in our day.
Make them know.
Do it again.
We are praying, God, what you did in the first 40 of the lives.
You've saved the bodies.
You've raised the transformation that's happened.
He would do it again and through his people.
So let's lift up our voice.
Let's make this our anthem.
Let's make this our prayer.
Do it again.
And hey, listen, if you need prayer for anything, we would love to pray for you.
Our prayer team will be right here at the front ready to do that.
If not, have a great rest of your Sunday church.
We'll see you again next week.
See ya.
Thanks for listening to today's message.
You know, here at Calvary, we believe a relationship with Jesus changes everything.
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, we'd love for you to text the word belief to 31352.
So you can find out what it means to follow Christ.
And to learn more about Calvary and all of our campuses, you're free to visit calvaryftl.org.